Aim for progress, not perfection
×
Modal title
Modal Content
Cancel
Ok
JavaScript Disabled:
You must have JavaScript enabled to utilize the functionality of this website.
This site uses cookies. By continuing to browse the site you are agreeing to our use of cookies. Find out more here.
Continue
Helpline
0808 801 0677
Youthline
0808 801 0711
Studentline
0808 801 0811
Types of Eating Disorder
Do I Have an Eating Disorder?
Anorexia Nervosa
Signs of Anorexia
Treatment for Anorexia
Avoidant/restrictive food intake disorder (ARFID)
Binge Eating Disorder
Signs of Binge Eating Disorder
Treatment for Binge Eating Disorder
Bulimia Nervosa
Signs of Bulimia
Treatment for Bulimia
OSFED
Treatment for OSFED
Other Eating and Feeding Problems
Glossary of Eating Disorder Terms
Downloadable Resources
Recovery Information
Help and Treatment
Early Intervention
Do Men Get Eating Disorders?
Going to the Doctor
How to Tell Someone You Have an Eating Disorder
Worried About a Friend or Family Member
Supporting Somebody Who Has an Eating Disorder
Support for Carers
Eating Disorders and Exams
Supporting Someone at Exam Time
Dangers of Pro-Ana & Pro-Mia
Worried About a Pupil
Worried About an Employee
Book Reviews
Downloadable Resources
Support Services
Coping with Christmas
Helplines
One-to-One Web Chat
Support Groups
Chat Rooms
The Nest
Swan
Owl
The Aviary
Kingfisher
Blue Jay
Phoenix
Dove
Nightingale
Registration
Overturning Bad Decisions
Echo Peer Coaching
HelpFinder
Get Involved
Christmas
Fundraise
Fundraising Events
Fundraising at Work
Fundraising at School
A-Z of Fundraising Ideas
Guidelines
FAQs
Campaign
Current Campaigns
Volunteer
Universities
Fundraise at University
Raise and Give (RAG) Group
Student Unions & Staff
Eating Disorders Awareness Week
Other Ways to Support Beat
Training & CPD
Healthcare Professionals
Parents & Carers
School Staff
University Staff
Eating Disorders International Conference
Online Training Portal
Professional Publications
Your Stories
Writing a Blog Post for Beat
Donate
Beat Champions
UpBeat
Ways to Donate
Leave a Legacy
Payroll Giving
Give a Big Gift
Beat on the Ground
Give in Memory
Helpline
0808 801 0677
Youthline
0808 801 0711
Studentline
0808 801 0811
Home
Your Stories
Recovery Stories
Aim for progress, not perfection
Aim for progress, not perfection
Posted 20/07/2018
I had a long battle with anorexia. Those thoughts telling me that if I just lost X amount of weight that I would have achieved, that I may be able to accept treatment, finally feel like I deserved it.
The trouble is that never happened. There was never a magic number. It was never enough. Whatever I did anorexia would still scream in my ear and make my mind feel like it was going to explode.
I chased those thoughts and followed those feelings, aiming for perfection, to feel like I had achieved something that would finally make me feel okay. To reach an impossible goal that would finally allow me to eat again.
Those thoughts landed me with one day care and three inpatient admissions.
I thought I would never get well, that these thoughts would never go away. There was no way I was ever going to be able to have a normal relationship with food and I was going to be fighting this forever. It felt like nothing was helping. Nothing and no one could seemingly help me to beat anorexia. Recovery seemed like it was something that happened to other people.
I wanted to write this to say that if this sounds like you, if this is how you feel then it’s okay! It’s okay to think these things – with what you are currently fighting it is totally understandable. However, it’s not true. These are the thoughts of anorexia playing with your mind, making you feel hopeless. I thought these things too and now I am nearly 10 years recovered from anorexia.
I soon learned that rushing recovery was one thing that was stopping me from recovering. I was trying to be not only perfect within anorexia but also to have a perfect recovery – both unreachable goals.
Each time I left hospital at a “normal weight” with the “well done”s and “look how far you’ve come”s I felt like I should be recovered; I thought that was what everyone thought. Sadly it is thought by some that if you are a “normal” weight then you must be anorexia free. This is simply not the case. Anorexia drives the symptoms and behaviours from the mind. The mind is where the issues are regardless of weight.
I learned to talk, to think about my life, including the things that I really didn’t want to think or talk about, to realise why I felt that my life was out of control and why I found it so hard to let the anorexia go. I learned to take it at my pace, to push against the anorexic thoughts little by little, and the more I did, the less power they had over time.
I let people in more who were trying to help as I had a terrible knack of pushing them away and so I slowly learned to try to do that less.
It was a long process and it most definitely wasn’t perfect. I still have times where I spend too long looking in the mirror analysing my stomach with those familiar thoughts washing over me and it’s still horrible when that happens. The difference however is they come in waves and then they generally wash away without me being affected, I have learned to deal with them and recognise that voice for what it is, and I have learned not to listen to the extent I did. Consequently 99% of the time I live totally free from anorexia and any related behaviours, and any that do occur are minor thoughts that come and go.
If you are reading this thinking this will never be you, please know that I thought this too. I thought that recovery was something that other extraordinary beings did and I would never get there. I am approximately 10 years free from anorexia and its pull has got less each year that has passed. You can do this too. It is possible. Small steps, one foot in front of the other and aiming for progress not perfection.
I now blog and help others in relation to mental health issues and am very passionate about raising awareness on mental health issues, particularly anorexia.
Contributed by Katie
Katie blogs at www.mentalhealthjourney.co.uk.
DisclaimerBeat never knowingly links to triggering content, but please be aware that we cannot be responsible for the content of external blogs.
You may also be interested in these
"I have learnt to rest in times of struggle and no...
Why the shame?
What is recovery?
You deserve to no longer be suffering from such a...
Newsletter
Beat would like to keep you informed about our work, fundraising activities, and campaigns.
Sign Up
About Beat
About Us
News
Media Centre
Vacancies
Contact Us
Work With Us
Ambassadors
Commission Us
Corporate Partners
Trusts and Foundations
Website
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Statement
Cookie Policy
Sitemap
Website Development by Netmatters