11 Do's and Dont's for Eating Disorder Recovery
Menu
Verywell Mind
11 Do's and Dont's for Eating Disorder Recovery
Share
Flip
Email
Search
Search
Clear
GO
More in Eating Disorders
Treatment
Symptoms
Diagnosis
Awareness and Prevention
Breakup Depression
Guided Meditation
Neurotransmitters
Holism
Optimism
Retirement
Disorders
Addiction
ADHD
Bipolar Disorder
Depression
Generalized Anxiety Disorder
PTSD
View All
Self-Improvement
Stress Management
Happiness
Meditation
Brain Health
Relationships
Inspiration and Creativity
View All
Psychology
Theories
History and Biographies
Student Resources
Therapy
Emotions
Sleep and Dreaming
View All
About Us
Editorial Policy
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Health
Verywell Fit
Verywell Family
Ⓒ 2019 About, Inc. (Dotdash) — All rights reserved
Eating Disorders
Treatment
Print
11 Do's and Dont's for Eating Disorder Recovery
These Steps Can Aid in Your Recovery
By
Susan Cowden, MS
Updated November 15, 2019
Approved by Wellness Board expert Barbie Cervoni, RD, CDE on October 09, 2019
asiseeit / Getty Images
More in Eating Disorders
Treatment
Symptoms
Diagnosis
Awareness and Prevention
Recovery from an eating disorder can be challenging. Treatment providers will often tell you many things you "should" do. While your provider may have your best interests at heart, they may not always emphasize the things you should avoid doing as you continue to get better.﻿﻿ The following are several tips to consider as you work to recover from your eating disorder.​
Don't Beat Yourself Up
Being self-critical often goes along with many other symptoms of eating disorders, but it won't help to motivate you or help you in recovery. Instead, being overly critical of yourself can increase feelings of shame and negative emotions you may experience, exacerbating an already difficult situation. Work to stay positive and use affirmation exercises to help combat self-critical thoughts.
Don't Blame Your Family
Although it used to be more commonly believed that parents were a leading cause of disordered eating, the latest research shows that eating disorders have complex causes that include genetic and societal factors.﻿﻿ No family is perfect. If your family has been unsupportive, they likely don't know how to be supportive. Talk with your treatment provider about how to process your relationships to be able to move on as you recover. Many providers will also encourage family sessions and sometimes use teletherapy or online counseling to include family members who live out of town.
Don't Insist That You Can Recover on Your Own
Research shows that people with eating disorders are more likely to recover with a specialized treatment team in place.﻿﻿ In most cases, willpower, self-help books, and independent work cannot replace the professional guidance of a therapist, dietitian, and physician. These professionals have years of experience and training to help you on the road to recovery. (ExceptionIn some cases, especially when there are no available specialists, or you may not be able to afford care, self-help and guided self-help for bulimia and binge eating disorder may be helpful.)
Don't Put the Needs of Others Above Your Own
Many people prioritize caring for other people above making sure that their own needs are met, sometimes hurting themselves in the process. This can be especially true when you are friends with someone who also has an eating disorder. While you want to help, their stories can be triggering and/or emotionally draining. Make sure that you take care of yourself first and determine how much of yourself you can truly give to others by setting appropriate boundaries.
Don't Believe You Aren't Worth the Cost
Treatment and recovery from an eating disorder can be expensive and time-consuming. Try not to get caught up in thinking that you are not worth the financial commitment that treatment may require. If money is an issue, talk openly with your treatment providers about it. There are often ways to get treatment that is less expensive.
Don't Lose Hope
Eating disorders are serious and sometimes fatal diseases.﻿﻿ But they are treatable, and full recovery is possible. When you begin to lose hope, it can become a self-fulfilling prophecy. Work to stay positive and talk to your therapist anytime you find you are struggling emotionally.
Don't Be Afraid to Ask for Help
Hopefully, you have a wonderful treatment team in place that you can call for help and support, no questions asked. But are you also including your family and friends and giving them a chance to support you in recovery? Asking for help can be a daily process and may require you to ask for specific things (such as support during meals) that they can help you with.
Don't Keep Your Condition a Secret
Keeping secrets about difficult things in your life can lead to feelings of shame and prevent you from asking for support when you need it.﻿﻿ Choose people who have earned your trust when it comes to sharing your experience. If they know what's going on, they're more likely to be able to be there for you in ways that will help.
Don't Be Impatient With Recovery
Full recovery can take years and for many, it's not easy. Many people struggle with slips and relapses as well. Have faith in the recovery process and check in with your treatment team if you aren't making the progress that you had hoped for.
Do Listen to Your Treatment Team
Your treatment team should be comprised of professionals who have years of training and experience with eating disorders. Listen to them when they recommend specific changes, even when it might seem scary to you. Changes such as adding medication, adopting a meal plan, or considering a higher level of care can be important and necessary changes to your treatment plan.﻿﻿
Don't Avoid All Situations That Make You Anxious
Recovery from an eating disorder requires facing situations that you may have been avoiding, such as eating certain foods, tolerating feelings of fullness, and tolerating feelings of anxiety when you do not exercise. Work with your treatment team to develop a plan to gradually face these situations.
A Word From Verywell
An eating disorder is a complex mental illness that requires professional care. While there is certainly helpful reading material out there, it can't replace the care of a qualified treatment team. Always consult with your providers before making any changes to your treatment plan.
The Best Online Therapy Programs
Was this page helpful?
Thanks for your feedback!
Learn the best ways to manage stress and negativity in your life.
Sign Up
You're in!
Thank you, {{form.email}}, for signing up.
There was an error. Please try again.
What are your concerns?
Other
Inaccurate
Hard to Understand
Submit
Article Sources
Verywell Mind uses only high-quality sources, including peer-reviewed studies, to support the facts within our articles. Read our editorial policy to learn more about how we fact-check and keep our content accurate, reliable, and trustworthy.
National Collaborating Centre for Mental Health (UK). Eating disorders. Eating DisordersCore Interventions in the Treatment and Management of Anorexia Nervosa, Bulimia Nervosa and Related Eating Disorders. Published 2004.
Berrettini W. The genetics of eating disorders. Psychiatry (Edgmont). 2004;1(3):18–25.
Halmi KA. Salient components of a comprehensive service for eating disorders. World Psychiatry. 2009;8(3):150–155. PMID: 19812744
Walsh JM, Wheat ME, Freund K. Detection, evaluation, and treatment of eating disorders the role of the primary care physician. J Gen Intern Med. 2000;15(8):577–590. doi:10.1046/j.1525-1497.2000.02439.x
Resmark G, Herpertz S, Herpertz-Dahlmann B, Zeeck A. Treatment of Anorexia Nervosa-New Evidence-Based Guidelines. J Clin Med. 2019;8(2):153. Published 2019 Jan 29. doi:10.3390/jcm8020153
Additional Reading
Mayo Clinic. Eating Disorders.
National Alliance on Mental Illness. Eating Disorders.
National Eating Disorders Association. Where Do I Start?
Continue Reading
Recovering from an Eating Disorder When You Live in a Larger Body
Self-Monitoring in the Treatment of Eating Disorders
Outpatient Treatment for Eating Disorders
An Overview of Eating Disorder Treatments
4 Steps to Challenging Forbidden Foods in Eating Disorder Recovery
What Factors Influence Whether You'll Fully Recover from Anorexia?
A Dietitian Can Make Treatment Plans for Eating Disorder Recovery
How Much Will Treatment for My Eating Disorder Cost?
Why It's Critical to Prioritize Eating Disorder Recovery
An Overview of Eating Disorders
Meal Support in the Treatment of Eating Disorders
Yoga Can Possibly Help Patients Struggling With Eating Disorders
How Hospital or Residential Treatment Centers Can Help Eating Disorders
Can an App Help With Managing an Eating Disorder?
Does My Friend or Loved One Have an Eating Disorder?
Leading Eating Disorder Charities & Organizations
Verywell Mind
Daily Tips for a Healthy Mind to Your Inbox
Sign Up
You're in!
Thank you, {{form.email}}, for signing up.
There was an error. Please try again.
Follow Us
Facebook
Pinterest
Instagram
Flipboard
Disorders
Self-Improvement
Psychology
Editorial Policy
About Us
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Cookie Policy
Careers
Terms of Use
Contact
Visit our other Verywell sites:
Verywell Health
Verywell Fit
Verywell Family
Ⓒ 2019 About, Inc. (Dotdash) — All rights reserved
Verywell is part of the Dotdash publishing family
The Balance
Lifewire
Trip Savvy
The Spruce
and more