Anorexic Diet TipsComplete Plan to Get Started - My ProAna Tips
Skip to content
My ProAna Tips
Main Menu
Pro Ana Tips and Tricks [Get Started Here]
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Anorexic Diet TipsComplete Plan to Get StartedAnorexic, Diet
If you were looking for the best Anorexic Diet Plan and Tips, then this is the right page. Find out everything you need to know before getting started.
Though Obesity and Anorexia are completely opposite, both these conditions do not fit into the general fitness standards. In today’s world, the idea of becoming anorexic is highly supported. The trend of being skinny aka anorexic is appreciated and seen majorly among the teenagers. Anorexia is not regarded as a disorder or diet, but in reality, an individual suffering from the disorder needs medical help. People all over the world who want to shed that extra pounds are curious to know about the anorexic diet. And this shouldn’t be shocking as today most of our work is confined to a cubicle leading to obesity and related disorders. And so in this article, we are sharing the different types of Anorexic diet plan that will help you achieve your dream of becoming anorexic.
But guys, before moving on to the diet plans for Anorexia, let me warn you that this diet is not to convert you into a patient of Anorexia Nervosa. We would want you to use the Anorexia diet plan to shed that extra pounds.
Contents1 What is Anorexic Diet?2 How to Become AnorexicThe Right Anorexic Diet2.1 The Baby Food Weight Loss Diet2.2 The Five-Bite Weight-Reduction Plan2.3 The Air Weight Loss Plan:3 Tips for Becoming Anorexic, the Healthy Way3.1 Prepare Yourself Psychologically3.2 Stay Hydrated3.3 The Right Diet Plan
What is Anorexic Diet?
We all are aware of Anorexia Nervosa as a disturbing eating disorder that is observed mostly in teenagers. The people suffering from this disorder experience significant weight loss as they purposely withhold themselves from eating food. Even when the mirror shows that they are thin, they have the perception of being fat and thus try to take very fewer calories.
This condition can be linked to psychological disorders like depression and low self-esteem.
Usually, people have a misconception that people on an Anorexic diet do not eat at all, but the truth is that they are on a diet extremely low in calories. These patients start by fasting in the initial days followed by a diet plan extremely low in calories.
How to Become AnorexicThe Right Anorexic Diet
According to the Eating Disorders Association, the most probable person to become Anorexic is girls of 10-19 years of age. But at the same time, boys are also facing eating disorder. The trend usually begins from celebrities who are always under the camera and are judged by people for their appearance. Therefore today almost everyone who is conscious about their weight and body is vulnerable to become anorexic. And with the right diet plan, one can easily achieve it.
Read MoreHow to Become Anorexic Naturally
Here are the various Anorexic Diet Plans that you might want to incorporate into your lifestyle.
The Baby Food Weight Loss Diet
In case you are thinking of how to become anorexic, let us begin with the Baby Food Weight Loss Diet. It is that diet plan which is reportedly favored by various Hollywood celebrities including Jennifer Aniston. The guideline for this diet is pretty simple, you just have to ingest baby food. Yes, you heard that right. Those little jars filled with pureed food can be considered as one meal or a snack for you. But make sure that you do not consume more than one container. With this diet plan, you can easily achieve the Anorexic state as you are consuming only nutritious food.
But stay clear of alcoholic beverages and coffee. You can ingest water repeatedly after the snack. Also in case you get the feeling of starvation, you can munch the same baby food as snacks. In case of a mushy feeling, you can cheat your meal with a granola bar. This is a superb approach for weight reduction, as it is not expensive when compared to the other Anorexic Diet plans.
The Five-Bite Weight-Reduction Plan
Another Anorexic diet plan that will help you in severe weight loss is the Five-Bite Weight Reduction Plan. This is just perfect for those who eagerly want to know how to be Anorexic. The overall concept of this diet plan is simple. You can have only 5 bites of the food that you like. And mind you, no more than five bites at breakfast, lunch and then at dinner.
The best thing about this diet plan is there are no constraints in regard to the food that you can eat as long as you are taking just five bites of it. Moreover, the plan will be much better if the five bites that you take is of something healthy and nutritious. And for the rest of the day, you are allowed to drink anything as long as it doesn’t contain any calories. Apart from this, you should include vitamin supplements, and some source of protein, maybe a protein drink or a protein bar which has zero fat in your diet plan.
The Air Weight Loss Plan:
As the name suggests, according to this diet plan you have to eat more of air and less of solid food. Just say no to real food, and pretend to eat it. The air diet is basically a French-created plan. It is also named as the secret anorexic diet. The diet proposes that you must not consume any form of solid food for some time. You can survive on water, soup, and juices.
Just follow the given process. Take a plate and fill it with food. Now bring a loaded spoon close to your mouth, but DO NOT EAT! As the name says AIRD DIET, just smell the aroma aka air of food. It may sound funny, but we are serious. According to one of the campaigns by Dolce and Gabbana, the Hollywood figures were portrayed with food near their lips but never eating it.
And so you can include a lot of water in your diet. But stay away from aerated drinks like soda. It should not be part of your diet. Whatever drinks you include should be just low in calories and sugar.
Tips for Becoming Anorexic, the Healthy Way
Anorexia is no less than a threat to the life of an individual. But you can still achieve it without endangering your health. Here are a few tips for becoming anorexic, via a healthy way.
Prepare Yourself Psychologically
Hunger is a natural psychological need of human and so we are prone to overeating. Many times we don’t even know when to stop. Therefore motivation is very important and the need to convince your brain to control the satiate for hunger should be achieved. For this one can chat with people, converse with a pro-ana counselor, visit forums and blogs about Anorexia or get motivated by celebrities and their way of living to achieve this physical state.
Stay Hydrated
Often we cannot differentiate between hunger and thirst. Most of the time when we get dehydrated, we take food instead of fluids. And so if you are on an Anorexic diet, and are feeling hungry then we would suggest you consume a glass of water or two. Remain hydrated as it is very essential in the process of becoming anorexic.
The Right Diet Plan
Change in the diet plan and exercise will only be effective if it is not carried out the right way. It is important that you choose the right plan to become anorexic. Implement the right diet plan, get a constant medical control, keep a diary of your meals, and if required consult a nutritionist. But remember, Starvation is not the right way to be Anorexia, so never go that way.
That’s it, guys. These are the Anorexic Diet plans that you can follow to lose extra weight. We sincerely hope that you don’t really need to use these plans, but if you really need it we would suggest you undertake any of these diet plans under medical help. Eat healthily and Stay healthy.
Post navigation
← Previous PostNext Post →
Search for:
More Guides on Pro-AnaMy ProAna TipsPro Ana WebsitesShould you Visit Them?
Pro Ana Diet7 Different Pro-Ana Diet Plans
Pro Mia TipsBingeing and Purging
Pro Ana Tips to Avoid Eating [29 Simple Tips]
Anorexic Diet TipsComplete Plan to Get Started
Pro Ana Fasting Tips for Beginners
Copyright © 2019 My ProAna Tips |