Disclaimer | The Pro Ana TIps
HomeAbout MeBlogContact MeDisclaimerTerms of ServicePrivacy Policy
0
DisclaimerThis website does not provide medical advice. We do not recommend anyone to follow any of the things mentioned on this websites. We recommend that anyone who is reading articles on this site needs to consult a doctor before they try to follow any of the things written here. We hereby request all our readers to not follow anything that is mentioned on this website without consulting a doctor and a psychiatrist if necessary.LEGAL DISCLAIMERAll information and tools presented within this site are intended for educational purposes. Any health, diet or exercise advice is not intended as medical diagnosis or treatment. If you think you have any type of medical condition you must seek professional advice even if you believe it may be due to diet, food or exercise. theproanatips.com is not a medical institute and therefore none of its staff will give any diagnosis or medical advice. By using our site you agree to our terms.Weight loss for all .com was established to provide good, practical information to help healthy adults in their weight loss efforts. This site is not intended for people under 18 years, pregnant or breast feeding women, underweight individuals or people with eating disorders or any health condition that requires a special diet. We do not guarantee that the information will be completely accurate.Therefore the author, publisher or and owners cannot be held responsible for any errors, omissions or inaccuracies published. It is advised that all visitors check information provided on this site with a professional source.The owners, distributors and any participants disclaim all liability or loss in conjunction with any content provided here. We disclaim any liability for products or services recommended on the theproanatips.com site including defective products or direct, indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages, arising out of the use or the inability to use the materials/information published or products sold on this site.YOU SHOULD ALWAYS CONSULT A QUALIFIED PRACTITIONER BEFORE USING ANY DIETARY, EXERCISE OR HEALTH ADVICE FROM THIS SITE! We urge all our web site visitors to seek medical / professional advice before beginning any weight loss program, exercise, training regime or any diet. When embarking on any training program we also urge people to start slowly and gradually. Always select exercises that are safe. If you experience discomfort, distress or any other symptom whilst exercising please do not continue. WE RESPECT THE SAFETY AND WELLBEING OF VISITORS THEREFORE WE DO NOT PROVIDE ANY DIAGNOSIS OR MEDICAL ADVICE. All product names and trademarks mentioned in any part of the website belong to their respective owners. The information on this page may NOT be accurate, therefore you should NOT take any of the content as a source of reference for any reason whatsoever! You are responsible for comparing the information with an accurate source before using any, or part of this content.
sharing is sexy
Want Pro Ana Buddy?Subscribe to our Newsletter and Get Special Tips and TricksName Email
Other Tips 30+ Ana Guide to Avoid Eating (New) Pro Ana Recipe :- Super Low Cal Recipes for Anorexia Things To Know Before Starting an Anorexic Diet Plan How to Find a Pro Ana Buddy to Chat About your Diet Pro Ana Workout :- Tips & Exercise Plan For Losing Weight
Copyright text 2019 by theproanatips.com