Links « Ana's Sanctuary
Ana's Sanctuary
"The only true redemption is in starvation…"
Search
HomeLinks
Motivation
Recipes
Safe Foods
The Sanctuary
Tricks of the Trade
Who The Heck ARE You?
Links
You guys know, I’m very picky. I do my own research, and I’m careful of the content I add. I do not want this to be one of those pro-ana sites that just copy and paste from other sites. That being said… The links you’ll find here are from sites that I feel are legit and real, and have good information on them. If you have a website you would like added, or if there’s a site you think should be on here, please let me know. Thanks so much!
Pro-Ana Sites
The Pro Ana Lifestyle — I really like this site for the thinspo. Really, that page alone is amazing. The quotes page is great as well, and the “ana religion” writings that are flying around the internet are even more extensive on this site than what is typically seen. Please be wary of the tips page.
Pro-Ana Lifestyle — This is not the same site mentioned above. And I love this one for its thinspo and unique homework page. Check it out!
Fat Girl’s Guide — The tips page is extensive. So while many of them are some of the classics, they’re actually are a few good ones. Overall, I list this one here because the girl is like many of the girls drawn to my site who began their ana journeys with a higher BMI.
Keeping All Our Secrets — Nice feel to the site. Lots of in-depth information on popular ana diets.
Pro-Ana Anne — I like her blog. And she has some good information on diets.
Ana is a Beauty — It’s flashy!
Ana Tips — I don’t actually know what this site really is. I’ve seen it a few times. You get the feeling that they’re trying to sell you something, but they never do. Still, I actually like the tips on this page. And coming from me, that’s saying something.
Informational Sites
Natural Hygiene Society — This page was written as an informational thing for their clinic, but it’s an EXCELLENT article on water fasting.
After a Binge — Love, love, love this girl’s post here about post-binge recovery. There are lots of articles online about this, but I like that this is written with the anorexic frame of mind. I think it definitely applies to us more than the mainstream health information.
Cut 500 Calories a Day — A very nice article from Health Magazine about little things we can do to burn more calories. It’s not pro-ana minded, but still a good read.
BrainyQuote — Just some quick motivation when you need it!
Other Stuff
House of Thin — I don’t really know what this website is? But I like it!
Blue Dragonfly — Oh, Blue Dragonfly… How you bring me back to my childhood angst. For anyone in their twenties who might remember this site, the preserved archives are here! You’re welcome.
Chatzy — Come talk to us!
My Pro-Ana — A really good forum for all things ana. (Just don’t post asking for tips or tricks. Made that mistake once… *shudder*) My name on there is anasanctuary, if you want to find me!
Share this:TwitterFacebookLike this:Like Loading...
Search
Recent Posts
My Water Fast!
New Stuff
I’m Back
Fuck, Christmas Dinner…
An Anorexic Thanksgiving
Recent Comments
Moira on New StuffMoira on New StuffMoira on My Water Fast!littlewhitescale on An Anorexic Thanksgivingaurorathin on New Pro-Ana Site
Archives
January 2016
December 2013
November 2013
Categories
Uncategorized
Meta
Register Log in
Entries feed
Comments feed
WordPress.com
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Privacy & CookiesThis site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here:
Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: