Pro Ana Tips to Avoid Eating [29 Simple Tips] - My ProAna Tips
Skip to content
My ProAna Tips
Main Menu
Pro Ana Tips and Tricks [Get Started Here]
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Pro Ana Tips to Avoid Eating [29 Simple Tips]Tips
It is very difficult to maintain the weight and the diet plan you have been following. These days losing weight is not only a necessity to be healthy but has also become a lifestyle. And one such trending lifestyle these days is Pro Ana in which one tends to eat almost nothing to be thin and slim. Diet is definitely not easy to follow hence requires a perfect plan and tips to follow. One needs to be very specific about what to eat and what not to eat for there are certain foods that may lead to a tremendous increase in weight. Therefore today’s article focusses on Pro Ana Tips to Avoid Eating so that one does not fall into the pit of eating almost everything.
Contents1 What Is Pro Ana?2 Pro Ana Tips to Avoid Eating3 Wrapping Up!
What Is Pro Ana?
Pro Ana stands for Pro Anorexia, a serious eating disorder that is characterized by a refusal to maintain a body weight within 15 percent of your ideal weight. In this anorexic diet, people restrict calories severely and exercise excessively. But following Anorexia does not mean that one should skip meals for having balanced meals and snack allowing with dieting is important to maintain physical and mental wellness. It is essential to consume fruits, vegetables, grains, protein and dairy in appropriate quantities and proportion to maintain Pro Ana Diet.
But the serious question does not lie in the fact that what should on eat during Pro Ana diet rather what are the Pro Ana Tips to Avoid Eating. This is because one needs to be very specific in taking in the calories for it may lead to a drastic increase in the weight.
Pro Ana Tips to Avoid Eating
So let us begin with tips and tricks that will give you strategic ways in which you can avoid eating when on a Pro Ana Diet. If you follow these tips then you can surely reduce weight in almost no time.
Whenever you feel hungry do something gross like cleaning toilets or the litter box. You will no more feel hungry later.
If you are taking meals then don’t swallow. Just take a bite, chew and then spit it out.
Water! Water! Yes, just drink as much as water you can for it will make you full. Also cold burns more calories.
Give yourself a goal and this way you will not get off track as to how much calories you have taken.
Don’t slouch for you burn 10% more calories when you are sitting up straight.
Keep a thinspiration book that you read regularly and just keep thinking about it. This is your second bible.
You can decorate your surroundings and walls with quotes and thinspiration pictures to avoid eating.
Eat only veggies and fruit that you do not like so that you don’t tend to eat them.
Do jumping jacks and another exercise like rolls whenever you can.
Keep yourself busy. This will let your mind off of eating.
Twitch for every calorie counts.
When you are hungry, drink something warm like tea or coffee. This will open your digestive tract and make you feel full.
Always think like- “What if I was 10-15 pounds lighter?” How would I look and all?
Always keep diet pills and laxatives around in case you could not control your hunger.
Sleep at least 7 hours. Because less sleep increases appetite by 15%
Eat on a blue or black plate it will make you feel fuller faster.
Pick one food a day. Like an apple. Cut into 4 equal parts. 1 for breakfast, lunch, dinner, and 1 left for a snack. This way you will eat less.
Take a picture of yourself in only your panties. Keep it with you and look at it when you feel a binge or craving coming on. You will then not want to eat.
Brush your teeth often so you will not want to eat after they are clean.
Get rid of foods from your house that you are likely to binge on and that will increase your calories.
Avoid going to the kitchen so that you do not see delicious food.
Avoid being triggered by not watching the food channel.
Keep healthy things around in case you do binge so that you binge on only those.
Go somewhere that doesn’t allow food like a library.
Eat Ice cubes as they will give you feeling of eating something and the coldness actually burns calories.
Do not chew cinnamon gum on an empty stomach. It will make you even hungrier.
Drink a sip of water in between every bite of the food and will make you feel full.
Watch what other people, especially fat people, eat, and feel superior.
Spend a little time of yours each day on a Pro-Anorexia website, read emails, or look at your scrapbook to keep motivated.
Wrapping Up!
So that’s all about Pro Ana Tips to Avoid Eating in order to lose weight and get slim within few weeks. But one should also remember that these tips need to be followed in limits as one should not be completely devoid of food and in turn devoid of essential nutrients.
Post navigation
← Previous PostNext Post →
Search for:
More Guides on Pro-AnaMy ProAna TipsPro Ana WebsitesShould you Visit Them?
Pro Ana Diet7 Different Pro-Ana Diet Plans
Pro Mia TipsBingeing and Purging
Pro Ana Tips to Avoid Eating [29 Simple Tips]
Anorexic Diet TipsComplete Plan to Get Started
Pro Ana Fasting Tips for Beginners
Copyright © 2019 My ProAna Tips |