Pro Ana Diet7 Different Pro-Ana Diet Plans - My ProAna Tips
Skip to content
My ProAna Tips
Main Menu
Pro Ana Tips and Tricks [Get Started Here]
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Pro Ana Diet7 Different Pro-Ana Diet PlansDiet, Tips
If you are one of those who is worried about your health and its related issues, then this article is for you. Almost half of the world’s population today is suffering from obesity and physical health issues that are not only related to gaining of weight but also brings in mind related issues. So for all health fanatics, here I am sharing one of the most rigorous, awaited and great diet plan called as Pro Ana Diet. Here you will get the detailed guide on all the Pro Ana Diet Tips and tricks that will help you lose weight and shed some extra pounds in the best way possible.
Contents1 What is Pro Ana and Pro Ana Diet?2 Pro Ana Diet2.1 2 Week Diet2.2 The Lunabelle Diet2.3 The ABC Diet2.4 The Rainbow Diet2.5 The Ballerina Diet2.6 The Baby Food Diet2.7 The Five Bites Diet2.8 The Ana Atkins Diet3 Wrapping Up!
What is Pro Ana and Pro Ana Diet?
In a literal sense, diet is the sum of food consumed by an individual. Talking about, Pro Ana, it stands for Anorexia. Anorexia is an eating disorder where people get obsessed with the loss of weight. Their main aim is to convert themselves into as thin as possible. On the other hand, to become Anorexic one follows the diet popularly called as Pro Ana Diet.
Basically, Pro Ana is a diet plan is a strategy that means promoting and favoring the anorexic diet. Or it can be considered as the mimicking behaviour of people who are suffering from eating disorder called Anorexia Nervosa. Pro Ana diet has now become a lifestyle who also call themselves as the member of Pro Ana Community.
Pro Ana Diet
Pro Ana Diet is getting popular day-by-day and is considered as one of the fast weight loss diet plans. With Pro Ana tips diet you get the fastest result. So follow this aggressive Pro Ana Plan of Diet to become thin. So let us begin with the perfect Pro Ana Tips and diet plan.
2 Week Diet
The fastest method to start losing weight is by following the 2 week diet program. This program has the best success stories and does not  require you to do much.
No need to get confused with various diet plans, simply go through this program and you can understand more about it.
The Lunabelle Diet
The Lunabelle Diet can be considered as the condensed version of the ABC diet. But this diet plan is only for a shorter time span (40 days). It includes more fast days and variations in calorie. The Luna diet calls for double fast days. The recommended calories are 50-100 on one or the other day hence reducing the double fast to a single fast. It is safer diet form with no side effects. You need to drink a large amount of water for keeping your sodium level balanced.
The ABC Diet
The infamous Ana Boot Camp or ABC diet is one of the most popular diet forms under Pro Ana. This one is so extensive diet that most of the people do start, but fail to finish it. It is 50 days of varied calories that is combined with moderate exercise to achieve the perfect results. One of the most effective tips of ABC diet is the ‘one vs. many’ theory. You can have one meal a day and eat all the calories at once or simply space your meals.
If you are comfortable with fasting, eat one meal. Else if you get hungry, space it into a bunch of meals. Also, you need to do thirty minutes of moderate to high-intensity exercise a day. It will help you in weight loss with effective results.
The Rainbow Diet
As the name suggests Rainbow Diet is eating a single ‘color’ each day of the week. You will see that by the end of the week you had eaten a little under 700 calories which is less than the above-mentioned diets. You need not follow this diet with heavy physical activity for it may cause lots of dizziness and dehydration.
Water is the essential ingredient of this diet for keeping your body hydrated. You need to restrict yourself from eating foods. Rainbow diet includes food like fruits, vegetables and raw foods that are healthy.
The Ballerina Diet
This is another form of effective and much popular Pro Ana Diet that does not allow you to overeat. You cannot combine different protein products like fish and chicken and even couldn’t add salt to anything. You can consume milk and dairy products but with no fats. It is mandatory to drink 2 litres of water but avoid drinking it 30 minutes prior to the eating meals.  Your diet can include-
Breakfast– 1/3 pack of cottage cheese and a small glass of milk
Second breakfast– reduced calorie bread with margarine, a cup of coffee (black), tsp. of honey
Lunch– a tablespoon of cooked rice, drink one cup of broth, eat a piece of meat (no more than 150g)
Dinner– two hours before bedtime have a glass of warm milk or a plain yoghurt with a tsp. of honey
The Baby Food Diet
This form of diet is the one where to eat baby food to process weight loss. You can consume organic baby food (vitamins) and eat more vegetables than the fruits. Your diet can include-
Breakfast
Apple and Banana Puree
Lunch
Vegetable and Lentil Bake
Dinner
Succulent Tomato and Chicken Ragout
The Five Bites Diet
This diet is a form of ‘mental gastric bypass surgery’. Obese people get their stomachs staple feeling full. You will consume only a few bites of each meal. You need a self-control to follow this strict diet. This diet suggests eating 5 bites of each meal that should be small.
The Ana Atkins Diet
The last Pro Ana Diet comes with a twist in Atkins diet. In this diet, you can hardly eat any carbs but may consume protein and fats. With this diet, you will see a drastic loss in your weight and your appetite will diminish in few days. Your diet plan will include-
Breakfast
3 egg white omelette, cooked with 2 sprays of cooking spray
Snack
White fish fillet oven baked in foil with 5g butter
Lunch
Roast Chicken Drumstick with 1 cup of salad leaves
Snack
50g of prawns cooked in garlic and chilli and 2 sprays of cooking spray
Dinner
Grilled Sirloin Steak with 1 cup of salad leaves
Wrapping Up!
Well, these were some of the best Pro Ana Diet tips that are under recommendations if one wants to lose weight within few weeks. Everyone aims to have a thin body and these diet tips are perfect thinspiration for you to follow.
Post navigation
← Previous PostNext Post →
Search for:
More Guides on Pro-AnaMy ProAna TipsPro Ana WebsitesShould you Visit Them?
Pro Ana Diet7 Different Pro-Ana Diet Plans
Pro Mia TipsBingeing and Purging
Pro Ana Tips to Avoid Eating [29 Simple Tips]
Anorexic Diet TipsComplete Plan to Get Started
Pro Ana Fasting Tips for Beginners
Copyright © 2019 My ProAna Tips |