Pro Mia TipsBingeing and Purging - My ProAna Tips
Skip to content
My ProAna Tips
Main Menu
Pro Ana Tips and Tricks [Get Started Here]
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Pro Mia TipsBingeing and PurgingTips
Eating disorders are becoming the talk of the town. Words like anorexia, pro-ana, pro-mia, and bulimia are becoming the most searched keywords on the Internet. People all over are having this harmful mindset that pro-anorexia and pro-bulimia is a lifestyle choice instead of an illness. And so this article is for those who are thinking to inculcate bulimia diet or are already bulimic. We are sharing some Pro Mia tips and tricks that will help the person to binge and purge easily. If you are not new to Bulimia, then you might know that it basically follows the principle of binge and purge. But for the beginners, let us begin with a small insight into Bulimia, the impact of Pro-bulimia and some safe Pro Mia tips and tricks for bingeing and purging.
Contents1 What is Bulimia?2 Bingeing and PurgingPro Mia Tips and Tricks3 Pro Mia Diet Tips and Tricks3.1 FOOD RECOMMENDED TO EAT for Bulimic diet:3.2 FOOD NOT RECOMMENDED TO EAT for Bulimia diet:4 What is the Potential Impact of Pro Bulimia?
What is Bulimia?
Bulimia is the lifestyle where a person eats, either very little or normally but after eating they force themselves to throw up. In other words, they sometimes binge on their favorite food and then clean up their system by purging. The latter is mostly done by stimulating the gag reflex, either by sticking some foreign object, if not, then their own finger down their throat. But in order to maintain this condition, one needs to remain motivated and here are a few Pro Mia tips that will help you stay motivated.
Think about how the food will look like after you have chewed it up. And then you’ll be glad to vomit it out of your system.
Think about your own body. How great you will look like after it ends.
Think about whom you would look like after this ends.
Think about that whenever you purge, how close you have reached your goal.
Bingeing and PurgingPro Mia Tips and Tricks
Drink salt water after bingeing. This will retain all the water and make purging easy afterward.
Take laxatives in the ratio of 2, 4, 6, 8 so that your body doesn’t get used to it, as you need to take higher and higher doses with each passing day. Like 2 the first day, followed by 4 the second, 6 on the third day and 8 on the forth. Then you need to fast for one day i.e., don’t use any laxatives and then start the cycle again. By this tip, you are mainly tricking your body.
Mineral oil is a less harmful yet effective laxative. And so you can buy it easily from any grocery stores.
Drink lots of water while eating. This will not only make the food get up easily but will also enhance its taste. Also, it will make you feel full early, so you have to puke out less.
Just gulp down a can of soda before you purge. The bubbles will again help the food to come up. You can also drink it while eating, as it will fill you up faster, and with that icky feeling in stomach, you can easily throw up.
Push on your stomach.
Use your stomach muscles to push the food up.
Another way to purge is by stimulating the gag reflex, by using one or more than one finger. Just wiggle them a little to “tickle.”
You can also use soak your fingers in warm water and then suck it up.
You can also try to cough or mimic gentle choking while you are gagging. This also helps to help food come up through your throat.
Binge after you exercise. This boosts your metabolism and helps you burn up the stuff that you can’t purge.
If possible try to puke in your bedroom using a bag or something because of a shiny layer on top of the water after you puke. If you throw up in the toilet then it will attract attention at home
After you purge don’t brush your teeth! This results in the decay of tooth enamel due to the acid. So just rinse your mouth with either water or mouthwash.
Always opt for puking in the shower. This is the easiest way than anything else because you not only get to relax in the hot water until you are ready to purge again. But it also hides the noise when you throw up in a shower. And if you have decided to go this way, then make sure that after puking there is no vomit left and also make sure that you have not eaten chunky foods.
If your eyes get red after throwing up (in case you just threw up in public or have friends around) then come back and tell them that it is due to your CONTACTS. Like you were trying to take them out, but now replacing them is driving you crazy and so you have red eyes.
Drink a large glass of water and follow it up with about 100 sit-ups. Then repeat the same process of gulping water and doing push-ups. Do it until your stomach is full with water. Make sure you do it fast, as this will make the food come up fast and with less acid.
What is more degrading while puking in a toilet is being splashed by the potty water or your own vomit. And so if you are used to forceful purging, then you can lessen this splashing thig by putting toilet paper on the water surface.
Look at some repulsing pictures of the food that you don’t like, or some nasty food, or of people vomiting, this will not only make you sick but also help you to purge.
Say that you are on your periods and so don’t feel like eating. And so no matter what. You can always skip your meal.
Out of all the above tips and tricks, whatever you choose, just stay away from ipecac syrup. It is an extremely dangerous syrup that can even be poisonous. It will not only help you throw up but can also damage your heart permanently.
Pro Mia Diet Tips and Tricks
Another important tip for Bulimia is having the correct diet. And so if you are not aware of the food that you should intake, then here are a few items that are recommended for bulimic diet and the ones that you should avoid.
FOOD RECOMMENDED TO EAT for Bulimic diet:
Always go for food that comes up easily, like the ones that are the liquidy type.
You can always rely on food like Ice cream, milkshake, Soups, frozen yogurt, bananas, juices, and other soft fruits, along with oatmeal and well-cooked soft vegetables.
FOOD NOT RECOMMENDED TO EAT for Bulimia diet:
Avoid food that is spicy, or apples, meat, chocolates, and bread.
Also one should make sure that they do not intake chunks of food. And so avoid potato, cooked grains, rice, or anything with sharp pieces like popcorn or chips, raw crunchy veggies, nuts, and salad.
What is the Potential Impact of Pro Bulimia?
The Pro bulimia treatment seems to have a negative impact on the people who are already bulimic or are vulnerable to adopt the lifestyle. The Pro Mia tips shared by such groups make the process of becoming bulimic easier and more acceptable than the treatment and recovery process for it.
Bulimia or bulimic condition seems to be a lifestyle for some, but it is potentially harmful to everyone, especially when they cannot put a stop to this condition. The fate of seriously ill bulimics is death. But at the same time since one cannot deprive a person of its feeling of belonging and right to self-expression, a halt to the Pro Mia movements should be thought of without impacting the basic rights
So, guys, this was all about Pro Mia tips and tricks that you can use to have a bulimic lifestyle. So you can uptake strategies like exercising fanatically, throwing up and laxative use to compensate bingeing and overeating. If weight loss is your main aim, then make sure you do it in a healthy way. After all, health should be our primary concern. If you have any further queries, do share it with us.
Post navigation
← Previous PostNext Post →
Search for:
More Guides on Pro-AnaMy ProAna TipsPro Ana WebsitesShould you Visit Them?
Pro Ana Diet7 Different Pro-Ana Diet Plans
Pro Mia TipsBingeing and Purging
Pro Ana Tips to Avoid Eating [29 Simple Tips]
Anorexic Diet TipsComplete Plan to Get Started
Pro Ana Fasting Tips for Beginners
Copyright © 2019 My ProAna Tips |