Pro Ana Fasting Tips for Beginners - My ProAna Tips
Skip to content
My ProAna Tips
Main Menu
Pro Ana Tips and Tricks [Get Started Here]
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Pro Ana Fasting Tips for BeginnersFasting, Tips
Pro Ana is a term which will soon become the most googled term. After all, in this era where everyone is trying to be slim and fit, anorexia is considered as a lifestyle rather than an illness. Apart from Pro Ana diets and workout routines, fasting is another way by which you can shed that extra pound. Though many of us think of fasting as starvation, it is not actually true. During fasting in order to get energy, fat is used up, leading to expected weight loss. Fasting with restrictive diets can be of great help, but at the same time, prolonged fasting with extremely restrictive diet can be dangerous. And so here are a few Pro Ana Fasting tips that you should always consider to boost your metabolism and in turn enhance weight loss.
Contents1 Fasting and its Types2 Benefits of Anorexic Fasting3 Best Pro-Ana Fasting Tips3.1 Pro Ana Fasting Tips for Your First Fast
Fasting and its Types
Fasting refers to a condition where a person says complete no to food and survives only on water. There are mainly three types of fasting that you can try according to your will and endurance.
Short-Term Fasting
In general, one should not keep a fast for more than 28 days, with a minimum of at least 21 days.
Long fasts that extend for more than 42 days are not only unnecessary but potentially dangerous.
A prolonged fast that extends for more than 2-3 months, is known as Starvation.
Medium-Term Fasting
Medium fasts range between 28-42 days, which should be performed by the dedicated fasters only. The benefits and results are astonishing of a 35 day fast.
Benefits of Anorexic Fasting
Many of us might think that fasting for days can prove to be fatal, as it would result in loss of energy and lead to weakness. But we are quite unaware of some of the benefits that fasting can bring. Yes, here is the mechanism behind fasting that helps one to lose weight.
Water fasting actually cleanses your body. It uses the stored food (fat) rapidly and then simultaneously expels all the built up toxins.
If you are fasting to achieve weight loss, which is obvious, then you can follow a tea fast or a juice fast. A few days on just any liquid or water will intensify the fast.
Fasting also helps in clearing the skin and whitening of the eyes. And of course, it initiates rapid weight loss that you are aiming for.
As toxins release into the bloodstream rapidly, it is highly recommended that you do not begin the process with water fasting.
Fasting also makes the process to overcome bad habits and addictions easily.
Also, due to fasting, one can get taste appreciation for natural and clean foods.
Individuals on an Anorexic diet need to have a fresh start most of the time. And so in such case fasting motivates you and gives you the enthusiasm for that start.
Best Pro-Ana Fasting Tips
Now that you are a little aware of the Pro Anorexia, and types of fasting we can move on to the Pro Ana fasting tips. These are some typical fasting tips that can work wonders for people beginning their journey towards this new lifestyle.
Keep you Fasting as a Secret- Try not to tell a lot of people about your fasting. As this will draw a lot of public attention towards you and will then and you in trouble.
Avoid watching TV – Try not to watch TV as you don’t need any kind of commercial temptation of food at this time. This will help you to maintain your focus.
Solitude and Withdrawal – We are strongest alone and we learn the most about ourselves in the quietness of our own presence.
Take walks alone – During your fasting period, all your five senses become clearer ad sharper. And as a result, you will be able to appreciate the loveliness of nature, the flowers, and breeze in the face, clouds, trees, sky, moon and the stars.
Sleep – Motivation and energy are the key factors that help you keep your fasting mode on. And so in case of lack of energy, take lots of naps. If you are thinking to detoxify you must to do it on a good night’s sleep.
Do not consume – Avoid the intake of drugs, alcohol, or nicotine while fasting.
A deep tissue massage can help you soothe the muscles and bring the needed calmness
Do not binge- After fasting do not binge or overeat. Try to keep a balanced amount of the food that you intake.
There are some Foods that you need to avoid during your fasting period. Some of these are-
Carbs: Bread, pasta, whole grain flour products and cooked whole grains,
Dairy: cheese, milk, yogurt, eggs, soy products, butter, ice cream.
Chemicals: sugar, artificial flavoring, caffeine, prepared food, sweeteners.
Cooked Food:  vegetable protein, cooked vegetables, junk food, fast foods, and meats.
Pro Ana Fasting Tips for Your First Fast
Pro-Anorexia is gaining popularity amongst the youngster. And if you too want to adopt this lifestyle to be in the race of fit and healthy people, then you can take help of these Pro Ana Fasting tips for beginners. In case you are on your first fast, then do consider the following tips.
Be careful of blacking out. It can happen during your first fast, as you can feel weak or sick.
Exercising should be completely avoided during the first fast as you can feel nauseous. You can opt for light exercise like light walking, stretching or deep breathing.
In case of back pain, one should use an ice cold pack. This is quite common and so one should be aware of some safety measures.
Water fasting is never suggested for a first fast, as the toxins are rapidly released into the bloodstream.
You can always go ahead with a tea or juice fast as your first fast. In case you feel exhausted during a juice fast, then drink some carrot or melon juice.
So, guys, this was all about the Pro Ana fasting tips and tricks that will help you lose weight at an average rate. You might think that fasting can be difficult, it is indeed, but as the saying goes- NO PAIN NO GAIN, one will have to bear their hunger to get better results. If you have any query or want to share any of your stories with us, then feel free to share it in the comment section.
Post navigation
← Previous PostNext Post →
Search for:
More Guides on Pro-AnaMy ProAna TipsPro Ana WebsitesShould you Visit Them?
Pro Ana Diet7 Different Pro-Ana Diet Plans
Pro Mia TipsBingeing and Purging
Pro Ana Tips to Avoid Eating [29 Simple Tips]
Anorexic Diet TipsComplete Plan to Get Started
Pro Ana Fasting Tips for Beginners
Copyright © 2019 My ProAna Tips |