TIPS & TRICKS – Pro Ana Goddess
Skip to content
Pro Ana Goddess
Menu
HOME
ANA LIFESTYLE & RELIGION
TIPS & TICKS
DIETS
DISNEY INSPIRED
WORKOUTS
BLOGILATES
POPSUGAR
THINSPIRATION
QUOTES
PICTURES
BLOG
CONTACT
TIPS & TRICKS
Basic/General Rules
RULES, RULES, RULES. This is important. You need to set rules for yourself, and if you are truly ana, you will have no problem sticking to them because you are STRONG! Rules are everything. ExamplesDon’t eat anything white. Do not, under any circumstances, eat after 6:00. Don’t eat before 3:00. Cut each bite into x amount of pieces, chew x amount of times. Do not eat anything that has over 3 grams of fat. Make your own and keep adding to them.
Ana must be the center of your life.
Drink a full glass of water before you eat and then sip a full glass between bites, you’ll get full much faster. Remember it takes 20 minutes for the brain to realize the stomach is full.
Eat denser food because it feels like more. Light and fluffy foods compact in your digestive tract and you will feel hungry soon after.
Take out only the amount of food you plan to eat and don’t allow seconds.
Think before you eat. Don’t eat while distracted (TV, etc). Stop and consider if you really want to eat that then consciously give yourself permission.
100-calorie meals is better than one 400-calorie meal.
Never eat anything bigger than about a cup, your stomach will expand and you’ll get hungry more. If you need to, eat more frequently, not bigger amounts.
Slim-Fast and other “healthy” bars and shakes have more carbs and calories than in the meal they’re intended to replace. Stay away.
Drink at least a glass of water every hour. It’s better for weight loss to sip throughout the day than to chug a full glass (except before eating, in which case it can make you eat less, or make you slightly nauseous so you don’t want to eat at all). Try keeping a water bottle somewhere you’ll see it a lot, like every 10-20 minutes, and take a drink from it every time you see it/notice it.
Drink up to a shot of apple cider vinegar before eating, it’s supposed to minimize fat absorption. Also speeds metabolism and can help curb cravings. Drinking more than a shot causes a vague nausea which helps suppress appetite.
Ice or gum are good food substitutes. Celery works too if you’re really hungry.
Use small, dark colored plates. Dark blue or black makes you eat less, and smaller plates and utensils cause you to take smaller portions from the start.
Make a list of “bad” foods. Periodically, cross one of the list and pledge to never, ever eat it again. Eventually there will be none left.
Eat in front of a mirror, naked or in underwear if possible. If you can’t, carry a picture of yourself in a revealing outfit and look at it when you want to eat. When you have cravings pinch your fat and look at your problem areas, don’t add to them!
Eat a lot of fiber for digestive health and low calories.
Create a methodical routine for eating. Cut food into tiny pieces, count your bites and the number of times you chew, set your utensils down between bites, and sip water between bites. Add other rules or rituals of your own.
Eat higher-calorie items earlier in the day so you have more time to burn them off; if you eat late eat light or it will be more likely to be stored as fat due to inactivity. Try not to eat too late, sleep burns calories and is a good opportunity to burn fat with little effort. The body must burn through all digesting food before taking energy from stored food (fat).
When you go out, take very little money or only enough to buy whatever non-food item you plan on buying. This will make it harder to buy food on impulse.
Don’t take bites, either from others’ food or while cooking, as the calories add up surprisingly fast and you may not realize how much extra you’re taking in.
Write down everything you eat and its calories. This will make you think before eating and also make you more aware of how much food and calories you are actually consuming. You can also write down other things such as how you’re feeling, who you’re with, place, time, and why you chose to eat it, this will help you track patterns in your eating behavior.
Wear a rubber band around your wrist and snap it when you want to eat. Food = pain.
Set a time you cannot eat past. 6:00 or 7:00pm are good choices. This is especially helpful if you are prone to night binging. Then make a rule that you cannot eat before 6:00 or 7:00AM, this is like having a 12-hr fast every day.
You shouldn’t eat for at least 3 hours before going to bed. The extra hours will help burn off the calories. If you eat soon before sleeping, you absorb more calories due to inactivity and you put on weight.
Have a peppermint or peppermint tea. Peppermint decreases hunger.
Brush your teeth when you want to eat. The clean feeling and mint aftertaste will put you off food.
Press on your stomach when it grumbles. TUMS also stop stomach growling and have calcium.(5 calories a piece so be careful!)
Carry a list of all the reasons you want to be thin and avoid food. Look at it when you want to eat to remind yourself why you won’t. Or, write a new list every time you want to eat. It’ll distract you, postpone eating, and thinking of the reasons will inspire you.
Cut a ribbon the size you want your waist to be. wrap and tie it around your wrist like a bracelet. Every time you look at it you’ll be reminded of your goals. When you’re tempted, take it off and wrap it around your waist. See how close you are, or how far you have to go, and resist the temptation.
Always leave at least one bite of food on your plate. This will help you to be able to stop eating and prevent binges. It will also stop you from compulsively finishing portions even when you have eaten enough.
Save $1 for every meal you don’t eat, then use the money to buy yourself a non-food present.
Friends will only get in the way. Avoid them until you reach your goals.
Never eat in secret. This is a terrible habit that leads to compulsive binging. If you wouldn’t eat it in front of all your friends you shouldn’t be eating it at all! Also if you only eat around other people they will know that you do eat and assume you eat alone as well, thus lessening suspicion that you have an ED.
Never eat out of a box or jar. Always eat from a plate or bowl. This will help you in several waysYou will see how much you are really eating; you can determine in advance how much you will eat and not go back for seconds; using a small plate or bowl will make you eat even less; you can count/measure out an exact serving and know the accurate amount of calories you are consuming.
Give clothes to Goodwill as they get too big for you. Don’t keep them around “just in case.”
If you live alone, put thinspo and/or reverse thinspo pictures on the pantry and refrigerator. A mirror works well too.
When you have hunger pangs, picture your stomach eating away your fat, and that what you feel is the feeling of thinness and your fat burning away.
Coffee is an appetite suppressant. Drink it black or with Splenda or other no-calorie sweetener.
Count your bites, and the number of times you chew them. Plan in advance how many bites you can have. Then make them smaller or use smaller utensils.
Paint your nails so you can’t eat until the polish dries. Teeth whitening strips are good too.
Drink water before eating. If you’re still hungry, drink green tea or broth. If you still need to eat, you’ll eat less than you would have.
Eat low-calorie foods with strong flavors. Sometimes you’re craving taste, not food. For bouillon, use less water than is recommended. Peppermints, pickles, peppers, and mustard are good choices.
Do not eat anything unless you know the exact amount of calories in it.
Chew gum while cooking. That way you can’t take bites while it is cooking, and you won’t want to eat it once it’s done.
Keep food out of sight, not sitting out, and stay away from food and the kitchen to keep your mind off it.
Keep a pocket thinspo in your wallet with your cash so you won’t spend money on food.
For sweet cravings, lick a chopstick and dip it into a diet Swiss Miss pack.
Write your current weight on one hand, and your goal weight on the other. When you go to eat, you’ll be reminded how fat you are, and how skinny you could be.
The Four D’s:
Distance yourself from food.
Distract yourself.
Delay eating
Decide what your goals really are.
Green tea raises metabolism and is very good for the skin and overall health. Drink it in the morning to increase metabolism for the day. Add lemon to make it more effective and to add a detoxifying aspect.
Hot water with lemon is another good morning drink.
Spicy foods raise metabolism, if you don’t like them you can take cayenne pepper capsules available in supplement section of drugstores or health food stores.
Drinking apple cider vinegar is said to raise metabolism, have a few tablespoons, can also be mixed in water (with lemon would be best) or used as salad dressing.
Start the morning with stretching to wake up your muscles, the morning is also the best time to exercise because your body will use stored food (fat) as fuel instead of food you ate. It also processes food better throughout the day and gives you more energy if you exercise in the morning.
Get at least 6 hours of sleep each night, less than this can decrease metabolism by 10% and increase appetite by 15%. You look better and feel better when you have more sleep also if you’re sleeping then you’re not eating!
Keep good posture, it burns 10% more calories throughout the day. You also look better.
Vitamin B6 and B12 raise metabolism and give you energy.
Eating protein increases your metabolic rate by 14%.
——————————————————————————————————————
Fact and Tip
Fact: You can only purge up to 80% of calories consumed. Tip: Avoid high caloric binges, instead eat things with a greater mass and less calories. Fruits and veggies are always a good choice. Fact: Carbohydrate digestion starts in your mouth. Our salivary glands secrete amylase, which is a digestive enzyme that begins the break down of carbs. Tip:Avoid eating carbohydrates at the beginning of the meal, because you’ll absorb more calories. Save the carbs for desert. FactFat is digested in the small intestines and therefore you feel fuller after eating a high-fat meal. Tip: Eat the fat first because it takes a long time to digest, therefore you’ll absorb less calories than eating carbs first. Beware, fat has twice as many kcals as carbs and proteins. Fact: Laxatives do not affect calorie absorbtion. Most food and calories are digested and absorbed in the small intestines and laxatives only affect the large intestines. Yes, you’ll lose weight, but the weight lost is from water and fecal matter. Tip: Only use laxatives after a large meal that you did not purge afterwards, this way you’ll see the real amount of weight gained instead of the fecal matter gained.
——————————————————————————————————————
Activities Calorie Counter
30 minutes of these activities for a 120 lb person, will burn:
Gym Activities
Aerobics, low impact158
Aerobics, high impact202
Aerobics, Step low impact202
Aerobics, Step high impact288
Aerobics, water115
Bicycling, Stationery, moderate202
Bicycling, Stationery, vigorous302
Calisthenics, vigorous230
Calisthenics, moderate130
Circuit Training, general230
Elliptical Trainer, general259
Ridersgeneral (ie., HealthRider)144
Rowing, Stationery, moderate202
Rowing, Stationery, vigorous245
Ski Machine general274
Stair Step Machine general173
Stretching, Hatha Yoga115
Teaching aerobics173
Weight Liftinggeneral 86
Weight Liftingvigorous 173
Training and Sport ActivitiesArchery:
non-hunting 101
Badminton general130
Basketball playing a game230
Basketball wheelchair187
Billiards72
Bicycling BMX or mountain245
Bicycling 12-13.9 mph230
Bicycling 14-15.9 mph288
Bicycling 16-19 mph346
Bicycling > 20 mph475
Bowling86Boxing sparring259
Curling115Dancing Fast, ballet, twist173
Dancing disco, ballroom, square158
Dancing slow, waltz, foxtrot86
Fencing173Football competitive259
Football touch, flag, general230
Frisbee86Golf carrying clubs158
Golf using cart101
Gymnastics general115
Handball general346
Hang Gliding101
Hiking cross-country173
Hockey field & ice230
Horseback Ridinggeneral 115
Ice Skating general202
Kayaking144
Martial Arts judo, karate, kickbox288
Orienteering259
Race Walking187
Racquetball competitive288
Racquetball casual, general202
Rock Climbing ascending317
Rock Climbing rapelling230
Rollerblade Skating202
Rope Jumping288
Running 5 mph (12 min/mile)230
Running 5.2 mph (11.5 min/mile)259
Running 6 mph (10 min/mile)288
Running 6.7 mph (9 min/mile)317
Running 7.5 mph (8 min/mile)360
Running 8.6 mph (7 min/mile)418
Running 10 mph (6 min/mile)475
Running pushing wheelchair, marathon wheeling230
Running cross-country259
Scuba or skin diving202
Skateboarding144
Skiingcross-country230
Skiingdownhill173
Sledding, luge, toboggan202
Snorkeling144
Snow Shoeing230
Soccer general202
Softball general play144
Swimming general173
Swimming laps, vigorous288
Swimming backstroke230
Swimming breaststroke288
Swimming butterfly317
Swimming crawl317
Swimming treading, vigorous288
Tai Chi115
Tennis general202
Volleyball non-competitive,general play86
Volleyball competitive, gymnasium play115
Volleyball beach230
Walk 3.5 mph (17 min/mi)115
Walk 4 mph (15 min/mi)130
Walk 4.5 mph (13 min/mi)144
Walk/Jog (jog 10 min)173
Water Skiing173
Water Polo288
Water Volleyball86
Whitewater (rafting, kayaking)144
Wrestling 173
Outdoor Activities Carrying &
stacking wood144
Chopping & splitting wood173
Digging, spading dirt144
Gardening (general)130
Gardening (weeding)133
Laying sod / crushed rock:144
Mowing Lawn (push, hand)158
Mowing Lawn (push, power)130
Operate Snow Blower (walking)130
Planting seedlings, shrubs115
Plant trees130
Raking Lawn115
Sacking grass or leaves115
Shoveling Snow (by hand)173
Home and Daily Life Activities
Child-care (bathing, feeding, etc.)101
Child games (hop-scotch, jacks,etc.)144
Cooking72
Food Shopping (with cart)101
Heavy Cleaning (wash car, windows)130
Moving (household furniture)173
Moving (carrying boxes)202
Moving (unpacking)101
Playing w/kids (moderate effort)115
Playing w/kids (vigorous effort)144
Readingsitting32
Standing in line36
Sleeping18
Watching TV22
Home Repair/ Auto Repair86
Carpentry(outside) 173
Carpentry(refinish furniture) 130
Cleaning rain gutters144
Hanging storm windows144
Lay or remove carpet/tile130
Paint house(outside) 144
Paint, paper, remodel(inside) 130
Roofing173
Wiring and Plumbing86
Occupational Activities
Bartending/Server72
Carpentry Work101
Coaching Sports115
Coal Mining173
Computer Work40
Construction, general158
Desk Work50
Firefighting346
Forestry, general230
Heavy Equip. Operator72
Heavy Tools, not power230
Horse Grooming173
Light Office Work43
Masonry202
Masseur, standing115
Police Officer72
Sitting in Class50
Sitting in Meetings47
Steel Mill(general) 230
Theater Work86
Truck Drivingsitting 86
——————————————————————————————————————
Eating Less
Load yourself with water. Keep your stomach totally full of water at all times! There is less room for food… obviously!
Become a vegetarian! Meat is fat and disgusting!
Fat free chocolate milk is good for sweet cravings.
Set yourself some rules! If you’re a true Ana, you won’t have any problem following them. Ana girls are strong!!
Diet pills, they may be dangerous, but you’re not dieting to be healthy. Being thin is more important than anything!
When you get the urge to snack, clean something, and use lots of chemicals. The smell will curb your appetite
Chew sugar-free gum. It will make you more hungry at first, but later you’ll get nausea.
Don’t ever eat out!
Don’t eat anything you don’t know the nutritional values of!
Tea helps to calm a hungry belly. It soothes and fills you up.
Chew your food untill it dissolves
Drink sparkling water or Crystal Clear, it fills you up more!
——————————————————————————————————————
General Tips and Tricks
*Take vitamin B6 and B12 supplements, they speed up your metabolism like none other * Purge in the shower, or in the sink when your music is playing. * If your about to binge, chew some gum, and think of yourself what obese people look like * Drink a glass of water every hour * Eat one meal everyday, this will help to prevent binge cravings * Take caffeine tablets * Smoke when you feel hungry * If you are craving food, brush your teeth * Eat gum all day * Sleep at least six hours a night, less than 6 hours stimulates appetite by 15% * When you sit, move your foot or something, every cal counts! * Tell everyone you’re allergic to some foods * Hit your stomach when it’s grumbling * Never eat when people are around * Associate food with feeling sick * Never eat anything that doesn’t have nutritionlabels * Save one dollar for every meal you don’t eat, then buy yourself a non food present * Take a bath * Always take your vitamins * Know when your trigger binge time is and avoid it * Drink water in stead of eating * Watch fat people eat, and see how disgusting they are * Listen loud music and sing/scream * Spinning yourself in circels decreases hunger
——————————————————————————————————————
3 Head Rules
7-7 rule Dinner must be eaten by 7.00 pm. After dinner no food is consumed until 7.00 am at the earliest. This is basically the same as a 12-hour fast, meaning, if you live by this rule for a year, you have fasted a half year! Mainly one should do this because your metabolism slows down at night, and if you consume food it will be harder to burn the calories. 3 hour eat/sleep 3 hours must pass between the last time you and and the time you go to bed. This ensures that you are actively burning calories while the food is initially digesting, versus, when you are sleeping, when metabolism slows and you burn fewer calories. Very important because you want to burn as many as you can! 2 times a dayYou must weigh yourself twice a day. Once at night before you go to sleep, and once after using the bathroom in the morning. This is more a self-esteem booster then anything else. You are always thinner in the morning.
——————————————————————————————————————
4 Week Plan (To start off with Ana)
Here’s a diet plan for those who are still eating way to much! It’s a 4week plan to decrease your calorie intake and increase your exercise until you’ve reached Ana’s standards.
These are just steps you can follow. No one has to do this strictly this way. I’ve adjusted the plan also. I don’t want anyone to go cut themselves, vomit or take laxatives. You’re better off without those three.
Step 1(One week)
* Decreae calorie intake to 1000 cals a day
* Read nutritioning labels
* 100 crunches a day
* 2 hours running a week
Step 2(One week)
* Decrease calorie intake to 500 cals a day
* If eaten more, exercise more.
* 200 crunches a day
* 30 minutes swimming/cycling/skating/dancing a day
* Take weight loss pills
Step 3(One week)
* 500 calories a day
* 250 crunches a day
* 2 hours running a week
* Take weight loss pills
* 1 hour swimming?cycling/skating/dancing a day
Step 4(Forever)
* 500 calories a day
* Create control. Reward yourself for every victory.
* 300 crunches a day
* 2 hours skating/swimming/dancing/cycling a week
* Take weight loss pills
—————————————————————————————————————
Distractions
* Go on a walk
* Search for health/nutrition info on the net
* Turn up the music and dance
* Clean your house until everything looks untouched
* Read a book or magazine
* Find out about finances and investing
* Find out enough about a national issue to form a strong opinion
* Do that that you were meaning to do for so long
* Rent and follow a yoga or pilates video
* Express yourself creatively
* Wander and browse trough the library
* Read about the toxins and food that build up in the digestive system
* Start writing in a journal about things besides calories
* Make your own, original, unique website
* Have a movie fest
* Volunteer somewhere
* Get a job
* Master your self description
* Play with your pet, they’ll love you!
* Call your grandparents
* Go to howstuffworks.com and find out!
* Exfoliate your entire body
* Think about your life goals and how you’ll reach them
* Make someone a bracelet or neckless
* Read the newspaper, every word of it!
* Stop procrastinating
* Do some extra credit
——————————————————————————————————————
Anti Binge
Go trough old stuff, throw away everything you never wear/use.
Mop/dust/vacuum/scrub anything, change bedsheets anything. The harder you work, the more cals you’ll burn! Hobby’s
Practice or learn to play a music instrument
Go shopping, you’ll burn cals walking
Go out for a drink
Go trough old photo albums
Make jewellry
Read a book!
Have a beauty day!
Have an extra shower
Take a very long bath
Give yourself a mani/pedicure
Brush your teeth
Eat chewing gum/ drink water
Detox!
Put on very beautiful make-up
Post on an Ana form
Write your thoughts in your journal
Watch MTV, let’s get inspired by all those skinny’s!
Make an ana video/poster/collage/drawing/poem/story/website.. anything!
Think of all the things you’d like to eat, and think of how many calories that are… and how many lbs!
Comparte:TwitterFacebookLike this:Like Loading...
One thought on “TIPS & TRICKS”
Sara says:
31 August, 2015 at 11:04 am
Reply
Really good tips!
I’ll send you an email bc I
need help…
Thank uuu ❤
I love your blog
LikeLiked by 4 people
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
( Log Out /
Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.
( Log Out /
Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
( Log Out /
Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
( Log Out /
Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.
Follow MeView proanagoddess’s profile on TwitterView proanagoddess’s profile on PinterestTwitterMy Tweets
Privacy & CookiesThis site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here:
Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: