Tricks of the Trade « Ana's Sanctuary
Ana's Sanctuary
"The only true redemption is in starvation…"
Search
HomeLinks
Motivation
Recipes
Safe Foods
The Sanctuary
Tricks of the Trade
Who The Heck ARE You?
Tricks of the Trade
There’s a lot of crap-lousy tips out there. We need to get some things straight. The tips you’ll see here are some you’ve probably already seen, and others you haven’t. We need to at least attempt to trash the dangerous and useless tips in favor of some more relative information. These are general tips and tricks, like the lists you’re used to. But these have all been researched, tested and tried, and these are reliable. Read on!
WaterYes, the basic of all dieting staples. You should be drinking eight glasses a day at the very bare minimum, but your best best is to drink about 8oz. every hour on the hour. Start with a glass of water as soon as you wake up. I keep a glass by my bed and drink it before I ever get up. Cold water will burn a few minor calories, as it does take caloric energy for your body to warm the water. But it’s marginal, at best. Warm or hot water, however, will make you feel full and curb appetite. Warm water is a great craving remedy, too.NEVER drink tap water. Distilled or filtered would be a little better, but not much. If you can drink pure spring water or osmosis-filtered water, that’d be awesome. Water toxins will screw with your metabolism and hypothalamus (the gland that controls metabolism and cravings) more than anything else. Don’t forget to make your teas and coffees with it, too.
Cravings They royally suck, don’t they? No worries. Ana can help. As mentioned before, warm water can definitely curb cravings. So can gum, peppermint (watch out, though, because there’s 25 calories in a piece of peppermint candy), tea, coffee, and water chugging. Brush your teeth, as this will make food taste funny. The worst I’ve found is Crest for kids. Get the bubble mint stuff that’s only a dollar from the dollar store. The toothpaste itself isn’t nasty, but it makes everything else taste that way. Brush when you get up in the morning, once in midday, and again at night. The anti-cavity fluoride will also help with the acid that erodes your teeth when you purge.Do NOT try crushing the food in your hands and smelling it. That’s a tip that’s circulated around. I’m telling you, smelling a food you’re craving, or even just seeing it, will make you much more likely to eat it. Your best best is to toss it, sabotage it with salt or water or spices, or feed it to the family pet. Smelling or seeing the food will immediately make you salivate, because your mouth is preparing to receive the food. That’s when your brain kicks into high gear and screams at you to eat it. Don’t tempt your body.When all else fails, just walk away.
Hunger. Don’t even kid yourself. Yes, we tell our concerned loved ones we aren’t hungry, but unless you’re emaciated, you definitely get hungry. It’s part of it. Any warm or hot liquids, like chicken broth, bullion, coffee, tea, or warm water will make you feel full if you drink enough. You can water chug, which just means you just chug water until you can’t anymore, or you feel sick. (Careful not to drink so much that you shock your body. People have DIED from drinking too much water in one sitting. Never drink more than two gallons of water a day.) When all else fails, you can pull out a list of safe foods and pick one to go crazy on. Sometimes, you have to. My binges usually include nothing except sugar-free jello. At most, you might take in 200 calories, and that’s if you eat with a shovel.People will eat out of boredom. Occupy yourself with a hobby or a forgotten chore. Chew ice. It gives you a little extra water and distracts your hungry brain. Fiber will make your stomach feel full before anything else will. Invest in some Metamucil (watch the calories in that stuff). And always include fiber-rich foods in your calorie intake. If it doesn’t have fiber, don’t eat it.
Hiding ItThis can be a very tricky part that I tread on lightly. At a certain point, you don’t want it to be hidden anymore, or need for it to be. But there are times when it’s necessary not to let anyone know what you’re doing. When you’re already fat like I am, it’s not as big of a deal to cover your tracks. But you do want people to think that the weight is coming off in a healthier style. And if you live by yourself, lucky, lucky you… Baggy clothes can hide the weight loss. If you lose weight too rapidly, or if you’re thinner and show weight loss faster, it’s important that you don’t show it off all at once. Leave dirty dishes around. Dispose of leftovers in the refrigerator and leave trace amounts on a plate for whoever you live with to find. Unless you have very specific eating rituals that you simply cannot break, never eat alone. Any allowed caloric intake for that day should be saved to eat in front of other people. Then who can say you’re starving? If you have a dog, bless your soul. Obviously, don’t give your dog anything that can hurt them, like chocolate or grapes. But if your dog begs, you can sneak them food. This is incredibly useful for family dinners that you can’t get out of.Speaking of family dinners, keep a napkin in your lap and drop food into it occasionally. Make sure not to leave the napkin on the plate when you’re done. You’d be surprised at the number of anas that make this mistake. Throw your own napkin away.Don’t try the trick where you spit your food into a glass. Whoever came up with this was stupid. The food floats up, and it’s right there for everyone to see. Seriously, don’t even attempt it. At dinners, do go ahead and eat a few bites, making sure someone is watching you do it. Fake chew now and then while cutting the food into smaller pieces and pushing them around a bit.Talk a LOT. This keeps the thoughts off of you, and your mouth is too busy talking to eat anything.Wear makeup to hide any paleness or dark circles.Your lips WILL chap. Start using a moisturizing chap stick, even if your lips aren’t chapped right now. Rest assured, your time will come, especially if you’re purging.
PurgingThere comes a time when we’re all going to do it. And if something is worth doing, it’s worth doing right. Purging is an art that it took me years to master. Now, it’s about as simple as using the bathroom, and it’s become about as natural as such, too. So for that reason, these tips might not work for you, or they may unlock your purging potential. Either way, here are some relatively safe purging tips. (Disclaimer There is NO SUCH THING as safe purging.)Sip water in between bites to make food come up easier. You can also use a diet soda, as the bubbles will help food come up. Some people swear by chugging one in advance.If you know you’re going to purge, stay away from anything spicy or sharp. Spicy food will burn like hell, and sharp foods like chips or popcorn can potentially cut something that doesn’t need cutting, making your throat or esophagus bleed. Anything will come up with enough water. Remember that. When you think you’ve gotten it all up, drink some water and purge some more. You can get some remaining remnants out that you didn’t even know were in there.Stuff like bread or cake, if not chewed well, will clump together and cause you to choke. Anas and mias have choked to death purging bread. Avoid it like the plague. When we’re binging, we tend not to chew well, anyway. Better safe than sorry.Laxatives about once a month is good for cleaning out your system routinely. But much more often than that, you’re going to build a dependency to them, meaning you won’t be able to poop without them at all. By the time you use laxatives, you’ve absorbed the food, anyway. Why bother? Just puke. Much more efficient. The crap about retaining half the calories you eat despite purging is, like I said, crap. If you look into the details of the study that came up with this theory, you’d understand why. Actually, it’s been proven time and time again that calories aren’t absorbed until they reach the small intestines. All the stomach does is churn and prepare the food for the small intestines, and that can take over an hour depending on the density of the food you ate. Purge within twenty minutes, and you’re good. Keep your fingers in your throat until it’s all gone. The more you pull out, the harder it is to finish the job. Ice cream is every bulimic’s dream food. Eat your fill! It’s a charm coming up again.Very few things are more degrading than having vomit slosh back up and hit you in the face. Put some toilet paper in the bowl to curb that.You can say you’re taking a shower and then just puke in the shower. I do this so I can eat dinner and keep everyone off my back. Just make sure the food is chewed up well enough to go down the drain. Otherwise, you’ve got a lot of explaining to do.Some people use toothbrushes and say not to use the bristle side. But if you use the other side, the angle won’t be right to his your gag reflex. Use the bristle side, and kinda rub that part of your tongue. A lot of people struggle with purging for years before finding this tip, and it seems to be the magic to the trick.
Any more tried and true tips you have, email them to me at litenme@icloud.com and I’ll review them for the site. If they’re legit and healthy, I’ll add it and give you credit! Remember, it helps to do your own research, too. All these tips have studies and evidence to back them up. They are NOT random tips. We don’t play that kind of game here. 😉
Share this:TwitterFacebookLike this:Like Loading...
Leave a Reply Cancel reply
Enter your comment here...
Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in:
Email (required) (Address never made public)
Name (required)
Website
You are commenting using your WordPress.com account.
( Log Out /
Change )
You are commenting using your Google account.
( Log Out /
Change )
You are commenting using your Twitter account.
( Log Out /
Change )
You are commenting using your Facebook account.
( Log Out /
Change )
Cancel
Connecting to %s
Notify me of new comments via email. Notify me of new posts via email.
Search
Recent Posts
My Water Fast!
New Stuff
I’m Back
Fuck, Christmas Dinner…
An Anorexic Thanksgiving
Recent Comments
Moira on New StuffMoira on New StuffMoira on My Water Fast!littlewhitescale on An Anorexic Thanksgivingaurorathin on New Pro-Ana Site
Archives
January 2016
December 2013
November 2013
Categories
Uncategorized
Meta
Register Log in
Entries feed
Comments feed
WordPress.com
Create a free website or blog at WordPress.com.
Privacy & CookiesThis site uses cookies. By continuing to use this website, you agree to their use.
To find out more, including how to control cookies, see here:
Cookie Policy
%d bloggers like this: